my experience with cyber learning
started pretty much as a result of being
a teacher fellow at Northwestern and I
went to a leadership conference and saw
Kenny Jonah from Northwestern speak and
he talked about using remote labs and to
me that was fascinating because a huge
interest of mine is bringing real life
instruments into the classroom I look
around my classroom and I see my kids
working with beakers and graduated
cylinders and in the real world they're
working with instruments that are a
hundred thousand dollars and as I send
them off to college I think they're not
really getting what they're supposed to
be getting out of their public school
education I want to give them access to
instruments that I'll never be able to
afford in my classroom
the idea of remote labs the concept
behind it is students from anywhere
around the world could go online and
they could access an instrument remotely
so they're able to pick the variables
that they want to change they're able to
set the parameters of the experiment and
go through the process of scientific
design by really accessing the
instrument it's not a virtual lab it's
not a can lab it's not a simulation you
can see the instrument moving you can
watch your experiment running and the
kids are fascinated by it so my students
right now are working on a radioactivity
lab where they access a Geiger counter
in Queensland Australia and what they're
studying is actually nuclear chemistry
and the effects of gamma rays and beta
particles and alpha particles but we do
it under the subtext of is your cell
phone cell phone going to fry your brain
now a cell phone doesn't release gamma
radiation it actually works using
microwave radiation but what they learn
is is that all electromagnetic radiation
acts in a similar way that intensity is
proportional to one over distance
squared which is a very fancy
mathematical way of saying the farther
you step away from the source of
radiation the less intensity you're
going to receive so we start off by
asking the kids how many of you sleep
with your cell phone under your pillow
and all of the kids raise their hands
and as our lessons go on and we learn
about half lives and different types of
radiation and our whole nuclear
chemistry curriculum they go on line
eventually and they run an experiment
they set up the scientific design by
themselves at home we do not do it in
the classroom which provides a lot more
time to work on other curriculum they
run their labs after school at night
three in the morning whenever they want
to and come back the next day we do peer
review which is something that you
rarely ever get in a high school
classroom where they actually get to
collaborate and talk about their results
and decide was your data better than
mine what did you try to work with what
were your variables how many distances
did you select and maybe why was yours
better than mine there's not one right
answer but the students really get a
chance to talk about maybe where the
weaknesses were in their experimental
setup then they go back home again they
work on a second run of the experiment
and what we're seeing is their
scientific design dramatically improves
the fact that they got to do peer review
and the fact that they have a lot of
time at home not a 50 minute class
period but a lot of time at home to
think about how to design a really good
experiment we've seen the proof through
studies that they're picking more
distances to check they're looking at
greater time periods they're running
more trials and they're doing better
science and the outcome was was awesome
because we started this off with the
question of is my cell phone
frying my brain and all of those
students that had slept with their cell
phones under their pillow and thought
nothing had been wrong with it not only
are they not doing that anymore they're
putting the cell phone as far away from
them as possible they're not wearing
their cell phone in their pockets
anymore if it's the girls they're
putting it in their purses if it's the
guys they're turning them off until they
use them and think what my kids got out
of it for now it is safer to get the
cell phone away from your brain and
probably not to use any type of device
that's going to work wireless and be
very very close to their brain in their
ear so I think that it was a topic that
caught their interest and they really
seemed to enjoy what they were learning
things that I would do to kind of
reassure a teacher that it's okay to try
some new things first there's a lot of
people like me that are out there that
will teach webinars for free to them on
how to use this curriculum and how to
use remote labs so i can walk them
through in less than an hour and say
this is how you access it this is how
you use the curriculum this is how you
embed it into your own curriculum and it
doesn't take that much time outside of
what you're doing for me i would really
push them to try it because my kids were
so fascinated by it and its exposure to
instruments that they'll never see if we
really want to prepare high school kids
for college wouldn't it be great if they
had access to these instruments before
they got into the real world and had to
get a job I don't think that beakers and
graduated cylinders are preparing them
for real life I want them to have skills
that can go into a career